While Singapore is a small city, systematic urban planning by the government has meant that our lives have developed around the towns we live in. Most of us grew up in one town and are likely to stay in that town. Even when young adults look to buy new apartments, they are given subsidies to live near their parents (i.e., their childhood home).

In this project, we want to explore the concept of the town and how different or similar they are. Are there old or new towns? Do older or younger people live in those towns? Are towns that are next to each other more similar to each other? We also want to apply this inquiry to public housing blocks. Are there blocks with similar characteristics?

Our objectives for this data pipeline are:

To identify public housing clusters on two levels: clustering towns, and clustering public housing blocks.

To gain insights and analysis through visualising trends in each town, but also trends in the clusters obtained through unsupervised learning, in the hope that we learn something new.

The success of our data pipeline is measured by whether we are able to observe interesting and useful trends in the data and from our model, and whether it matches the literature and our own experiences.

On the technical front, as we are using clustering algorithms, we will measure the success of our model by traditional metrics such as silhouette scores and inertia.

Finally, we envision two main use cases for our data pipeline:

For an interested user to explore the data and visualisations to learn more about the towns and their trends in Singapore.
For users who are looking to move but still want similar amenities and demographics to their current town/block, to find similar towns and public housing blocks that they can consider in their search.
